Important Dates:

Term Begins: June 24 2019
Mid-Term Examination: August 17 2019
Final Examination: October 5 2019

Important Addresses:


Instructor:  Rene de Jong rene@ictintelligence.nl
DE Coordinator:  csde@mum.edu
DE Director:  csdedirector@mum.edu
CS Systems Administrators:  cs_tech@mum.edu

Required Textbook:

Design Patterns by Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, and John Vlissides.
ISBN:   0-201-63361-2, 0-201-63498-8 (CD)
1st edition -- January 15, 1995 
Format:  Hardcopy, paperback, and CD-ROM.
Addison-Wesley Pub Co.

 

 

Evaluation criteria
Midterm Exam

50%

Final Exam

50%


 

 

Grade distribution:

A+	100-98
A	97-95
A-	94-90
B+	89-85
B	84-80
B-	79-75
C+	74-70
C	69-65
C-	64-60
 
Weekly Schedule:

 

Weekly Schedule:

Week 1: June 24


Topic: Introduction and OO
Watch Lesson 1 and Lesson 2
Reading: GOF chapter 1

Lab: OO lab



Week 2: July 1

Topic: Observer pattern
Watch Lesson 3
Reading: GOF Observer pattern, the article Explanation of the service class.pdf (found in the Resources/lab resources section)

Homework: Observer pattern homework
Lab: Observer pattern lab


Week 3: July 8
Topic: Façade, Strategy, Template method
Watch Lesson 4 + Lesson 5
Reading: GOF Façade, Strategy, Template method
Homework: Strategy pattern homework
Lab: Strategy pattern lab

Week 4: July 15

Topic: Iterator & Composite pattern
Watch Lesson 6 + 7

Reading: GOF Iterator and Composite pattern
Homework: Composite pattern homework
Lab: Composite pattern lab



Week 5: July 22
Topic: Command
Watch Lesson 8
Reading: GOF Command
Homework: Command pattern homework
Lab: Command pattern lab

Week 6: July 29
Topic: State
Watch Lesson 9 
Reading: GOF State
Homework: State pattern homework
Lab: State pattern lab

Week 7: August 5
Topic: Chain Of Responsibility pattern
Watch Lesson 10
Reading: GOF Chain Of Responsibility
Lab: Chain of Resposibility pattern lab lab



Week 8: August 12

Review and study for the midterm

Midterm Exam: August 17

Week 9: August 19

Topics: Proxy pattern, adapter pattern, mediator pattern

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TtfODxHL2FNdF52NqfGlFCgpM_DRi3NO

To watch the presentations, follow the instructions in the readme.txt file
The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

The Java examples from the presentations can be found in the sakai folder resources/Code examples

Lab: Lab8


Week 10: August 26
Topics: Factory pattern, builder pattern, decorator pattern, singleton pattern

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1labXBUJ1_CHaXueE20jbj9oKld82hsJX

To watch the presentations, follow the instructions in the readme.txt file
The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

The Java examples from the presentations can be found in the sakai folder resources/Code examples

Lab: Lab9


Week 11: September 2
Topic: Framework design

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1_dvPBM57NB21N_wBt3eA3RyC4_n5AJu7

To watch the presentations, follow the instructions in the readme.txt file
The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

Lab: Lab10


Week 12: September 9

Topic: Framework implementation

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1FIVpzj00ew6X3US3KVPo9AxiIuWb9EAB

The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

Lab: Lab11

 

Week 13: September 16

Topic: Framework example: Spring framework and DI

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1YITjJO5BDF6jAojqIbD5gQnBpyptHF9C

To watch the presentations, follow the instructions in the readme.txt file
The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

The Java examples from the presentations can be found in the sakai folder resources/Code examples

Lab: Lab 12


Week 14: September 23

Topic: Framework example: Spring framework AOP and events

Download presentation from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Vu3u0x7KDNLae5ntETLMggQzgpkraVRB


The presentation slides can be found in the sakai folder resources/lesson slides

The Java examples from the presentations can be found in the sakai folder resources/Code examples

Lab: Lab 13

Week 15: September 30
Review and study for the final


Final Exam October 5

 

Course Structure

I will presume that you are all familiar with the general structure and process of DE courses, but I do want to make a few additional comments here on this course:

You are expected to spend about 8-10 hours/week on the course, including the video lectures and all assignments. Be sure to manage your time, and plan for adequate time each week.
You need to be sure that you have this attention to time management, so that you are not caught in a bind and have to stay up late to complete any parts of the course. Just as we remind you while on campus, a good schedule and proper rest are vital for maintaining good health, and keeping regular with your TM practice twice-daily is a required part of the course (and all DE courses), and vital for continued happiness and growth in life.
All students are expected to participate in the class discussions, just like on-campus. That means that you interact with the other students in newsgroup discussions, either by posting or answering questions. Note that any personal issues should be emailed directly to me, not posted to the public forum.
Exams will be on the regular DE office schedule, and no late or rescheduled exams will be allowed without prior approval from me, and this will only be in the case of some personal or medical emergency. We do not allow alternate exam dates for convenience.
 

Academic Honesty

Please, read the following information and abide by these rules. Any dishonesty in your homework, lab assignments and exams will result in failing the course and being put on academic probation and potential dismissal from the program.

Academic Honesty Policy

Because of the importance of maintaining a high level of ethical and professional behavior in our program, we have a "no tolerance" policy on academic dishonesty. This means we will not evaluate situations based on the degree or seriousness of a cheating incident. No cheating will be allowed. All cheating incidents will be taken as a serious event, and the standard result of an NC in the course, academic probation, and review for dismissal will follow.

Description and Rationale:

Any collaboration on a supervised or proctored activity (exam, quiz, exercise, ...) which is intended as individual work will be considered as a violation of the Academic Honesty Policy.

Any submission of work by others as your work for an assignment which is for individual evaluation, or giving your work to others, is also a violation. That means that in a case of copying, both the copier and copied from person are both involved, which means that you have the responsibility to protect your work, and guarantee that it is not copied by others.

If you feel that you have some case where you can include the work of others in a submission, then you should confirm this with the course faculty, and include an explicit note with the material indicating what was copied, and from where. This includes cases where the main substance is copied, and only some superficial or small changes are made to the material.

Homeworks and Labs

The purpose of all homeworks and labs is for you to practice the knowledge which you gain in lectures and readings. Without such hands-on practice, you will not be able to effectively learn the details of issues involved in concrete application of the knowledge.

You are expected to do all programming and homework assignments on your own. You may not copy files or solutions from other students or have friends do all or part of assignments for you.

You may discuss concepts and ideas with other students. You may answer general questions about programming languages rules or help someone interpret an error message or locate a bug. You can also review together the relevant topics from class or readings to help understand the principles required for a program. In general, if the instructor or TA would provide a particular form of assistance, you may provide it too. When in doubt, check with the instructor or TA.

If you copy labs, or allow someone to copy your labs, this is cheating. This would prevent you from one of the valuable learning experiences in the course. In addition, it is a violation of MUM academic policy. Punishment for academic misconduct can be severe, including failing the course, or even being expelled from school. By departmental rules all cases of cheating must be reported to the Dean's office.